# Kafka Message Types

## Overview
 This module contains the message types that are used to communicate internally between
 the various Serai processes.

 The message types are defined as enums, and each enum variant contains a
 struct that contains the data that is sent in the message.

 The structs should inherit from the `SeraiMessage` trait, which contains
 funnctions for validating the message data, and each message will container a header
 that contains information about the version, the message type, message size, and message hash.

 The message types are:
    - `SeraiBlock` - This message is sent from the observer to the
     coordinator when a new block is observed.
    - `AckSeraiBlock` - This message is sent from the processor to
     the serai kafka topic when a block height is acknowledged.
    - `SignerReady{COIN}` - This message is sent after the coin is synced to tip and
       local keys have been created for both .
    - `ExternalBlock{COIN}` - this message is sent from the processor to
     the relevant coin kafka topic when a block is witnessed from the XMR network.
    - `ExternalInstructionIn{COIN}` - the message is sent from the processor to
     the relevant coin kafka topic when an instruction is witnessed from a block.
    - `InternalInstructionOut{COIN}` - this message is sent from the coordinator to the
     relevant coin topic when a new instruction is witnessed from Serai targeting a coin network.
     - `NativeInstructionRefund{COIN}` - this message is sent from the coordinator to the relevant
       coin topic when a refund instruction is witnessed from Serai targeting a coin network.
    - `MultiSigReady{COIN}` - this message is sent from the coordinator to the
     relevant coin topic when a multisig is generated.

   ## Kafka Messages
   
   ### SeraiBlock
   Currently, this message is generated by a subxt observation process that exists within the coordinator. 
   In future implementations this event should be deposited directly from the node layer.

      - pub hash: String,
      - pub parent_hash: String,
      - pub number: BlockNumber

     AckSeraiBlock
      - pub service_id: String,
      - pub recognized_hash: String,
      - pub synced_number: u32

     ExternalBlock{COIN}
      - pub hash: String,
      - pub parent_hash: String,
      - pub number: BlockNumber


